




















 

 

seven-Factor Model of Ethically-Questionable Behavior

 

 


 

 

Secondary Status Characteristics

 

 


 

 

Two types of status are relevant in most negotiation situations: palininn‘): Slim“ ""““f“““{'i§lik‘x
mum status characteristics, Primary status chamuﬁ‘ﬂslim refer to mfhculnm‘nl [le'llllmlc
ity; for example, a person's rank within an organization, ”‘f‘ number of :\‘l‘l|X‘I“\'lNCL‘N in that Person's
unit, and a person's various titles and degrees all denote |uzum‘u;}r status, The impact of Status on the
conduct of bargaining can be quite enormous. High»status individuals talk more, even when they do
not necessarily know more, A high-status person will also generally control when he or she sporks (
a conversation. Furthermore, a low-status person will defer to (In: high-slum?“ person in terms of turn.
taking in the conversation. These factors affect the distribution of resources in negotiation,

ANd Sop.

 

 


 

 

Primary Status Characteristics

 

 


 

 

167

 

 


 

are Inherently ruthless and make tride ! profit and ethies or fall to consider
eople wpple's interests f'ml wellure, but rather, ol psychologioa} tendencies that foster
old! |mil-inn mnkillH-J' Most often, people belteve they ure behaving ethically, but due to self.
poor dees lencies, problems result and negotiators ery foy) 23
serving ‘C‘lII‘LLL-nhiug people engage in unethieal be

24 kxcxmnplc. negotiators show an in
§0. ; than others accord them, 2 f
muhimcmicul and questionable negotiation tneties may be

evaluated on a continuum of "ethically
late" to "ethically inappropriate" from the standpoint
appropriate

of negotiators dummy, whether to use
;2" We address the question of w!
lMliCh. lat

hat behaviors are regarded as unethical or questionable in
negotations, the factors that give rige to them, and how to develop personal ethical standards

" "2 ©29en and Reputution
Ofls Detwae

, because

haviors without awareness that they are doing
»group bias by claiming more for themselves and their

 

 

 






 

 

166

 

 



 

 

Primary Status Characteristics

wor dma n RwWnlru status Clmwlk'lk‘l‘iw‘i C.
; a rotation situations? P||l||\l|‘\ N stiles and K.
Two types of status are relevant in most neg tat 8 |

Author,

s in [hill lwI‘NUII'N
1 n's various titles and degrees all denote Pl‘illlill')‘ status, The impact of status on ”lo
unit, and a person s V . 6 f

t of bargaining can be quite enormous, High-status individuals talk mfﬂ“ k‘\\‘lll\\’h¢n they do
conduct of e, A high-status person will also generally control when he or she SD@dks in
not nuxmszml) Hum; ‘mmtlg a |\;\\n-;~tul\l$ person will defer to the high-status person in terms
* r"“‘.‘ri;ml'\£?x‘gu: Thee Note Anette dist Bonen oP resouides in negotiation,
taking in the conversation, These factors

Secondary Status Characteristics

4 ; status cues (such as rank and status in an organization) are absent, or when people
te NT“); Matti?“ (smasr€sxx1m2uion to sutndnry status charneteristies, which
o Nu? hm‘qthﬁt m‘s‘t‘i p53; have no icgitinmm bearing on the allocation of resources or on
( e on m3». t $1211 Eu: nevertheless exert a powerful influence on behavior, Also referred
if ”ﬁght-30:3 characteristic, these include sex, age, ethnicity, status {n other groups, and
cultural background. The three most common secondary status charactcpspcs are gender, age,
and race, Men have more influence than women, older people have more influence than younger
people, and Caucasian people have more influence than African Axpericm people when it comes
to interpersonal interaction. '" Because men are perceived to be of higher status than women in the

mammmﬁmwﬁim'Mpmpom agreements and‘to have them v1_cwed
as coming from a competent source." Although pseudostatus characteristics are not legitimate
3 markers of status, people treat them as though they are. People notice status cues very quickly,

haracteristies. Primary status characteristies refer to inclic nlmx‘nl IGNNWC
ary status characteristics, a ir of supervisees
ondary st ample, a person's rank within an organization, the number of supervisee
ity; for exi v* hrn

of tum.

 

 
 

  

    

   

   

Rell ll ef Tk Koputation

s {inherently ruthless and make (ride Offs between profit and a
wow inil‘f'cmﬁ, lnml Woll'fmn but rather, because of psychological to
al Most often, people belfepe they ure behaving e
poor dee l; lencies, problems result and negotiators ery fou}, 23 f
serving "lll‘:|m'll|1illg people engage in unethieal be
u, 24 xii-xxunplc. negotiators show an In=group b
30 ; than others accord them,
mum] methical and questionable negotiation taeties my
l-‘Illt‘u to "ethically inappropriate" from the stand
umﬁl’f'gk‘ WC address the question of what behaviors F

mgotlations, the factors that give rise to them,
[

o are

 

thies op f

  

all to consider
ndencies that foster
thically, but due to self»

  
   
          
   
  

haviors withour aware
ias by elatming more j

 
 

ness that they are doing
or themselves and their

 
   
 
      
  

iy be evaluated on a continuum of "ethically

point of negotiators deciding whether to use
ire regarded as unethical or questionable in
and how to develop personal ethical standards,

   
       
    

seven-Factor Model of Ethically-Questionable Behavior

 

oki his colleagues identified seven ethically-questionable strategies in negotiation,
hmshigtmtiulﬁtiomll uﬁnpclilive bargaining, uuuck‘ing an opponent's network, making faise
C mises, misrepresentation, inappropriate informatmn galhc'nns‘ “may; mifrepmunr‘jm
ﬁmmve emotion, and strategie misrepresentation of newlv‘e emotion, Thu; seven- Mot
model is a useful way to examine attitudes about ethicn‘lly-quesuoqable “mama“ Tm is con
siderable agreement that certain strategies are more eth\cal_ly-qucsuomb|: g}? C k eer

In our own research, we examined ethical attitudes' with a numkfer a“ Vega; mm
groups. (see Exhibit 8-1), In general, traditional watt” bargaining w : suc t GC
one's real bottom line, making very high or low openi off? was: 3mm: “amnion” isapi
ing among one's contacts, is not regarded as “ethical Sel in" Wu negotiators l
more accepting of such tacties than are self-rated "cooperati W ”WWW
an opponent's network involves an attempt to Maw memmmm
orher associates or constituencies. Manipulation of networks extends 1

 

CQ
"tap

[mt

   

 









